---
layout:     post
title:      Convene
date:       2014-05-01 12:31:19
summary:    understood an organization through its meetings
dateFormat: Spring 2014
categories: user-focused tools
for:        Microsoft
slideshow:
    - image_path: /images/convene_1.jpg
      credits: image credit??
    - image_path: /images/convene_2.jpg
      credits: image credit??
    - image_path: /images/convene_3.jpg
      credits: image credit??
    - image_path: /images/convene_4.jpg
      credits: image credit??
    - image_path: /images/convene_5.jpg
      credits: image credit??
    - image_path: /images/convene_6.jpg
      credits: image credit??
    - image_path: /images/convene_7.jpg
      credits: image credit??
    - image_path: /images/convene_8.jpg
      credits: image credit??
---

Check-ins and synch-ups. Kick-offs and roundtables. Weeklies and monthlies and quarterlies and yearlies. Staff meetings and team meetings and board meetings and all-hands meetings. Meeting before meetings, meetings to plan meetings: meetings, meetings, meetings. It is useful to think of organizations as networked entities. If the people in these networks are the nodes, then meetings are the edges: the connective tissue in the network. Understanding these connections is key to understanding organizational structure, and can offer a tremendous advantage in making decisions around how organizations can and will change. But how do we see these networked structures?

Working closely with Microsoft’s Envisioning Group, we developed Convene, a prototype visualization tool for exploring and understanding meeting activity across large organizations.

Convene is an exploratory visualization tool designed to run on large, touch-enabled screens (in the studio and at the Envisioning Center, it runs on 82″ Perceptive Pixel displays). Convene offers three connected views of meeting data: Map View, Network View and Graph View. Users can switch seamlessly between these views using simple touch gestures. Each view offers a different approach in understanding meeting activity; together they provide detailed insight into connectivity across the organization.