---
layout:     post
title:      Sproxil Visualization Tool
date:       2014-06-01 12:31:19
summary:    sproxil description
dateFormat: Spring 2014
categories: user-focused tools
for:        Acumen
slideshow:
    - image_path: /images/me.jpeg
      credits: image credit??
---

Acumen approached The Office for Creative Research to analyze a year's worth (from 2013) of SMS messages collected in Nigeria from people who wanted to check whether medication they bought was original or counterfeit. People texted a number on the back of their medication bottles to verify the origin.

Working with Acumen, a venture fund for social innovation, The Office for Creative Research analyzed a year's worth of data, collected by Sproxil, to help Nigerians determine whether products they'd purchased, like medication, were counterfeit.

WHy? The overall goal was to take the data from a spreadsheet that didn't necesarily have timestamps and products, basic metadata, and turn it into a more compelling story. For example, looking at the timestamps from SMS's you can begin to understand via the animation the diurnal pattern of activity, the time of day people were more likely to call, like after work or into the evening. Similar patterns applied to the days of the week. Sundays had less activity than a typical weekday.

The interface also allows users to dial down deeper into a portion of time, a state within Nigeria, or specific products. You can also overlay different datasets onto the visualization, like a map of the percentage of people living in poverty, population density, rainfall, or the roads and rivers.

One of the more interesting storylines that contributed to our undestanding of the dataset in an unexpected way were the SMS messages that didn't follow the standard protocol of merely texting the code on the back of the product, but instead used personal messages like "I bought your medicine and i felt good thank you."